website/integrations: Mastodon: cleanup (#23323)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/chat-communication-collaboration/mastodon/index.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an application and provider
```

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **New Application** to open the application wizard.

>     - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings. Note the **Slug** value because it will be required later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings. Note the application **Slug** because you will use it later as `<application_slug>`.
```

        - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.
        - Add a **Redirect URI** of type `Strict` `Authorization` as `https://mastodon.company/auth/auth/openid_connect/callback`.
        - Select any available signing key.
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/bindings-overview/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **Application Dashboard** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

## Mastodon configuration

Configure Mastodon's `OIDC_` settings by editing `.env.production` and adding the following values:

```env title=".env.production"
OIDC_ENABLED=true
OIDC_DISPLAY_NAME=authentik
OIDC_DISCOVERY=true
OIDC_ISSUER=https://authentik.company/application/o/<application_slug>/
OIDC_SCOPE=openid,profile,email
OIDC_UID_FIELD=preferred_username
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<Client ID from authentik>
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<Client Secret from authentik>
OIDC_REDIRECT_URI=https://mastodon.company/auth/auth/openid_connect/callback
OIDC_SECURITY_ASSUME_EMAIL_IS_VERIFIED=true
```

:::warning Stable Mastodon usernames

> This configuration uses the authentik `preferred_username` claim as the Mastodon user identifier so new Mastodon usernames match authentik usernames. Disable the [**Allow users to change username** setting](/docs/sys-mgmt/settings#allow-users-to-change-username) in authentik to prevent authentication issues after username changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This configuration uses the authentik `preferred_username` claim as the Mastodon user identifier so that new Mastodon usernames match authentik usernames. Disable the [**Allow users to change username** setting](/docs/sys-mgmt/settings#allow-users-to-change-username) in authentik to prevent authentication issues after username changes.
```

:::

> You can also set `OIDC_UID_FIELD=sub` to use authentik's stable subject identifier instead of the username.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can set `OIDC_UID_FIELD=sub` to use authentik's stable subject identifier instead of the username.
```
